“Is that…someone getting hurt? While….OUTSIDE??”

We pan out to see a mass of flesh before a computer, something somewhat resembling a human being, with clothes on that are five sizes too small as they struggle to contain the creature’s bulk. It stares agape at one of the many computer  monitors in front of it, the only source of light in the room. On the glowing screen, someone appears to have suffered an accident while hiking, due to a rolled ankle.

“Oh….OH…”

The thing undulates with excitement.

“I know….JUST….the thing to post.”

It leans back and swings its torpid legs with a concerning amount of effort, its chair squeaking pleadingly. After a few moments, a keyboard pops out of one of its plentiful fat folds, onto the mound of empty bags and takeout boxes in front of its quintuple-set of monitors.

“I’m getting all TINGLY just thinking of my…MAGNIFICENT idea…OH…”

It stretches one of its arms out, index finger extended, grunting and heaving to reach the newly ejected board.

“D…”

The effort almost herculean, our resident intellectual manages to type the next letter.

“A…”

Huffing and puffing, the next letter is just as difficult.

“R…”

Sweat rolls off of its face and body, mixing with grease from its skin and leftovers from eight days ago.

“W…”

Its face turns beet red. Moving far more than what it is normally used to.

“I…”

The next key is the most worn of the bunch, for some reason.

“N…”

It pauses, nearly hyperventilating. Then, channeling the rest of its strength, it finishes with a final streak of keystrokes.

“A…W…A…R…D.”

It falls back with a tired wheeze. The chair gives, the blob of flesh careens onto the ground with a resounding thud. The impact shakes the desk, spilling trash upon the already plentiful debris on the floor. The keyboard falls off as well, onto the creature’s bulk with a plap. With that smack, his masterful work of art is posted on the forum of like-minded individuals. As it waddles to roll himself over, like a turtle tumped on its back, the idea gains traction with the other creatures. The number next to his comment rises above the others, until it’s at the very top.

The creature looks onward from the floor, a single tear escapes its eye. It manages to utter one phrase before passing out due to skipping his 15th soda that day.

“Thank you…for the gold…kind stranger…”