Antagonist Ideas (TBigS)
1)Constructs representing ideal method of recovering old world. (Compatible with option 2).

Example constructs:

Emperor - 
“If you don’t align with what’s best, why should I let you live? Working against me will only bring about ruin to what remains of the world, give me reason not to expedite your’s”

Ideal is sort of similar to using brute strength and numbered forces to bring back former, glorious world, but more along the lines of “if you aren’t with me, you are against me.” Since anything that it views as against him are immediately seen as opponents, he usually resorts to violence in order to, what he thinks, progress to the ideal. In his mind, by culling people unaligned with him, he’s chipping away little by little of anything that will pull away from his ideal.
Now besides expunging potential threats, what does he do? How does he progress? While this is one facet of him, he strongly believes that culling and strengthening himself or his forces will allow him to tackle what’s below the Wave. It’s still ambiguous what’s under there; some think it’s raw energy expanding and shrinking on itself. Others like Wrath think it’s a strong, power hungry creature that can only be defeated by raw strength.
In practice, he gets stronger by defeating who or what he perceives as enemies. Since his belief is that strong, he actually does strengthen when he’s victorious. Think of an RPG protagonist, except bloodthirsty and wanting to strengthen himself or his forces at any moment. Or maybe a warlord like Genghis Khan.
Generally wants to protagonist to join forces with him, but will be to be heavily convinced if the protagonist does not want to join him. The longer you wait, the more people join his ranks. When he deems he has enough, he will confront what is under the Wave.


Patience/Sloth -
“There is nothing we can do now. We must pause and find the right moment to act; it’s better to save our energy than burn brightly when it is futile.”

Ideal is to wait until the Wave settles. Constructs last a while, and by strengthening his belief, he grows stronger the longer he waits. Debating on making him passive or hostile from the get-go. If the latter, could make it so either if you attempt to disturb him he turns into an enemy or have him appear later when the story develops, gaining strength from biding his time. Think of a monk meditating to gain power, except he’s spending quite a long time to get there. Think centuries at minimum.
Is generally ambivalent to the protagonist, serving as a source of information on the other constructs, the world, and what was before.


Death/Wrath -
Nearly mute, as it is resolute in its belief: death brings birth. 

Charred, fully irradiated, with damaged parts still somehow operating, it attempts to destroy anything from the previous times. Buildings, salvaged tools, or constructs (like the protagonist), only when it is all wiped out will it rest and destroy itself. 
It is always moving. Always looking to ensure the next age is devoid of anything from the previous one. 
It ignores nature, animals, and people that do not use former-age tech, though the former two have been affected by its presence. Just being close to it brings death, as its irradiated body kills anything close to it within seconds. It leaves a path of death where it walks, so it’s easy to tell where it has been. But where it will be is more uncertain.
Depending on its whimsy, it may recant its reasoning: it has witnessed what happened before. It will not rest until all that caused it is exterminated, so that a new, untainted age may be rid of the past’s sins.
The more it destroys, the stronger it gets. Once it has deemed that the mission is done, it will dive into the Wave for its final purpose.
Since the protagonist is of the former age, it wants it dead. Once discovered, it will relentlessly follow the protagonist until it perceives a greater threat to its mission.
Possible will have early encounters with it where it shrugs off the protagonist while it’s busy with something else, with later encounters being more aggressive as the protagonist gets stronger.

Peace -
“What’s below is the opposite of above, and we reside above. Below is destruction, so what does that make us?”

Ideal is to foster what is above the destruction of the Wave. The floating islands and bright skies counterpose the swirling mass of dark clouds below them. Given how harmful the wave is to Peace, it was a no brainer that it should support against it. Almost like a superhero, it goes around fighting against any forces that attempt to reduce the peace above the clouds. It often presses his chest out, like a superhero pose.

When the adventure starts, Peace is at its most strongest. At times, the protagonist will run into it and the latter will provide assistance if wanted, as long whatever you’re fighting is opposing peace. With how much progress it has been making, its personality is quite contagiously confident and jovial.

As the story continues, Peace’s strength wanes as its ideal is not held. It still attempts to help, but isn’t as effective or optimistic about it. Despite that, Peace still tries to fight and provides decent enough support.

As the story is closer to the end, Peace is at its weakest. Weak enough that foes it easily beat at the beginning of your journey are overpowering it. This brings a chance for the protagonist to help Peace; if the protagonist does not help, Peace will die. If the protagonist helps, but allows Peace to take enough damage, Peace’s will plummets and may do something drastic, as it views itself as useless. If the protagonist helps and Peace still keeps its vitality, it will be present near the end watching your final fight, pressing its chest out.

(Others to come)

2.The protagonist is the last construct. The antagonist is what is below the Wave.

This is more general and not as interesting, but is an option if development time is strained. In this scenario, the Wave is ambiguous and its form is described to the protagonist in various forms by the locals. The Wave will send out small, calamitous things every now and then to violently subsume the protagonist. Said things are devoid of personality and merely act on the will of the Wave. If 1) falls out of favor, could reuse its assets for parts of 2).

3)Protagonist is former antagonist from the past.

For this, the protagonist was once a tool for subjugation. After finding itself in the future, lost of memory, the only constructs he finds are dead or repurposed ones. The repurposed ones also have a faulty memory, but see kinship with protagonist. Throughout the adventure, it meets people and things that bring a bit more life to the landscape. While some may be enemies, the rest make it worth it. Maybe through these meetings the MC can piece what it once was. When coming upon its terrible past, it has the opportunity to reject it and potentially sacrifice itself so that the lands above the Wave continue to flourish, and maybe piece itself back together.
This scenario can easily not be as interesting or impactful if spoiler is exposed too early.
