(Sometime post-intro, optional event, lore development)
You follow the piercing light to its source. The sharp crags and violent waves make it difficult to spot, but it becomes clearer as you approach. It was a lone lighthouse.

Its architecture is pre-Event, but still its light shines. Brushing your hand along the perimeter, its age is apparent. The materials used in its construction were astoundingly durable, very few things could last centuries unscathed. Let alone millennia. The stone, hatch-like opening of the place takes a bit more effort to open, but with your strength it has nothing it could possibly hide. 

The air inside is stale, thick with dust and debris. A nostalgic, familiar smell wafts past you, before the stinging, salty air returns. The place is littered. Old, tattered books and paper spread across the floor from a collapsed bookcase. Merely walking kicks up enough air to disturb them, with thin pieces peeling off of the loose leaves. There seems to be a paper intentionally placed in the center of a table, set out to be read by someone, but it is impossible to discern its faded contents. Picking a book off the ground only makes it fall into fragile strands. The core of the lighthouse still hums, a gentle light pushing through the dusty glass cover. Despite the world around it, it kept doing its duty. Curious on the source of power, you brush some dust aside. Inside, you see something that chills you. 

There, a construct like you, lies. Its outer skin completely torn and exposed due to extensive neglect. The shining power source is visible in its chest, an eternal reactor is fueling the lighthouse. It sits in a calm position, its weapon lying by its side. From its posture, you discern that whatever led it to do this, it did it on its own volition. You attempt to see if you could talk to it. 

The construct does not react. Whatever mental faculties it had was long since gone. It is effectively dead, its metal corpse fueling the lighthouse out in this dreaded scape.

With how desolate the place around the lighthouse is, perhaps it sacrificed itself to keep it alive and warn travelers of the dangerous crags and hungry sea. A lot of time has passed. Maybe there was a town here that benefitted from it. Whatever noble reason the construct had, you’re likely the only thing alive that’s aware of it. You wonder if you should turn it off, to give it peace. No one could possibly benefit from the lighthouse now. But then again, it brought you here.

(Option, lore exposition)
You flip a coin and let it land in front of the core. Maybe it will bring you luck. Maybe you did it out of pity and you wanted to show your respects. An odd thing, a construct showing another their sympathies. Though considering nowadays, you suppose you’ve experienced stranger. 

Nothing else is here for you.

(Visiting later. Foreshadowing other, sympathetic antagonists)
You find yourself back at the lighthouse. It’s still lighting the surrounding, violent land and sea. Going back inside, you see nothing has changed. Except…
the air feels more disturbed than before. 

Inspecting the place, you find that amongst the coin you have tossed, there are a few others that have joined it. The lighthouse brought other people. Though on second thought, that’s unlikely, given the area. Other constructs were here. Seems they held the same sympathies as you.