(Absolute beginning)
The main character awakens on a floating island, in the middle of a small crater, its memory completely gone. There is a sparse forest around you, along with a simple log house nearby, though it has seen better days. Other islands float in the distance, but much farther away that one would need to fly to reach them. Investigating inside reveals an equally simple interior; its residents have been away for some time, perhaps several months. Reading through the books and journals they left behind, you slowly recall parts of your memory.

The islands you are on are what remains of the planet below. A good amount of time has passed since the Event occurred, with many accounts conflicting with what had happened. Whatever is below is keeping the islands afloat, and traveling below requires protection, if navigating too deep into its foggy depths. There are settlements attempting to grow along these, with some difficulty due to the far reduced amount of metals and minerals that are able to be procured. Civilization is a far cry from what it used to be, but people have managed. Life is more or less similar to how it was centuries before the Event, but with some tech salvaged to make certain aspects easier, like travel.

Before you glean more, you hear a droning hum outside. Something twitches in the back of your mind, as if it’s saying“find a weapon.” The residents have left a simple sword, leaning beside the door. Investigating, you find a man hopping off a floating bike of sorts. He seems to be surprised by your presence upon noticing you.

“Woah woah woah, I thought this place was empty.”

The man winces at the sight of your weapon, but smirks.

“Cute. You think you can defend a shoddy little cabin with that butter knife?”

He was right, your blade was dull and lacked the gleam of a sharp cut. But something tells you it’s more than enough for him. Whatever his intentions might have been, he seems to quite hostile to you now, approaching with confidence.

“Well, what you gonna do, punk?”

(Tutorial fight)

The fight was over quickly, the bandit subdued.

With blood spurting out of his wounds, he manages to cough out, “What…are you?”

While you’re uncertain if his remark was due to his weakness, or your relative strength, it does give you a short pause. The weapon you handled seemed far lighter in your hands compared to how the bandit wielded his, despite them appearing similar in size and weight. Though you think the sword may have bludgeoned him more than sliced, which may have added to his surprise.

With the amount of bleeding he suffered, he passes out.

(Write about vehicle and pre-Event tech it’s composed of. Foreshadow main character)