Fake City
There were no people in the city.

Lights were on. Shelves were stocked. Screens and advertisements flashed. Cars parked where they should be.

Yet the city was missing its heartbeats.

The sound of people completely absent, with only the humming of electricity in their place.

Contrary to the night before, it’s like everyone went up in smoke while I slept.

I had came here in passing, but this place’s intrigue kept me.

I watched from my hotel balcony, having a clear view of the still heart of downtown.

There was no motion to be seen anywhere. Nothing through the windows. Nothing on the streets. 

You could actually hear the wind blow softly, as there were no other sounds to impede it.

I went to grab breakfast, only to find nothing prepared.

I had to settle for stopping by a local shop for a premade sandwich. 

Despite no one at the counter, I felt compelled to leave some cash for it.

As I walked around, my footsteps gave a small echo wherever I went.

Eerily still, I noticed there weren’t any forms of life at all.

No birds. No dogs or cats. No bugs. No rats. Nothing.

I was the only thing alive in the city, as far as I could tell.

The advertisement screens and televisions took on a peculiar hue, as if beckoning me to look. With words that seem a little too on-the-nose to be coincidental.

“Lost? Looking to be found?”

“Feeling lonely?”

“Fewer things are better than being around friends!”

“Good times are coming.”

I shrugged it off, but the messages stuck in my mind; they only made my curiosity stronger.

I peered into every place I could, discovering a few oddities.

Certain things were still…operating.

Places that were supposed to be closed at certain times had their doors locked, despite no one being there to lock them.

Elevators were moving to different floors, seemingly picking up and dropping off no one.

Inside gyms, some treadmills were in motion.

Sidewalk crossings still flashed for pedestrians to walk, despite no one being there to press the buttons.

I spent the majority of the day being fascinated by these phenomenons, I could hardly pull away.

Time went by quickly as a result. 

The messages on the screens appeared to change.

“The wait is nearly over!”

“Feel what’s coming?”

“See for yourself!”

“The time is close!”

Just a few minutes after, around 7pm, the familiar noises from yesterday gradually returned.

Each previously-empty location I glanced at was suddenly filled with people.

Like a broken clock suddenly, slowly speeding up its gears, the city breathed life again.

Cars appeared around corners to slowly fill the streets with their idle putters and honks.

The gentle wind promptly hushed by the busyness of a city in motion.

Pigeons revealed themselves from behind signs and cooed curiously at the bystanders below.

As odd as it was to observe it, I noticed the occasional gnat and dragonfly buzzed outward from beneath grates and deep cracks in the pavement.

Everything came in like actors flowing out from a backstage.

The signs changed again.

“Enjoy yourself!”

“Paradise is closer than you think!”

“Vacation? More like Stay-cation!”

“Make a friend today!”

As peculiar as this is, and despite how taken aback I was, I took the time to address a more concerning issue: I was quite hungry.

Seeing that the restaurants were open and manned, I might as well get something to eat.

Stopping at the closest establishment, it was eerily normal.

I was welcomed in, given a seat after a mild wait time, and was served a fine meal. 

Patrons were chatting along about their lives. Topics mundane and mildly interesting, but not unusual.

After I finished my meal and paid the check, I made my way to a nearby bar to take a pulse of the locals.

The place was busy with nightlife, people coming in from work, young men and women enjoying themselves as music thumped in the background.

The bartender was busy, but welcomed me with fast professionalism.

As I was served, a beautiful woman in a sleek, black dress approached and sat next to me.

“Hey handsome, what are you doing here alone on a fine night like this?”

The woman was almost like a model, which made me only more cautious on her intent. I still entertained her with my name, and stated I was in town for a night.

“So you’re new here! I’m Talia. I thought I didn’t recognize you. The city here is my life, and I come here especially often enough to remember every face.”

She leans in a little.

“So just here for a night, huh?”

I responded that I had already spent a night, and I have to leave fairly soon.

She pouted. “Aw, already? Sure you don’t want to stay another day or two?”

Unfortunately, I have things to attend to. Though before I leave, I asked her about the…peculiarities of this city.

She cocked her eyebrow and chuckled, “You sure you aren’t hallucinating? You were probably dreaming; this city doesn’t sleep.”

I was quite certain this city was empty for nearly a full day.

Talia expressed concern, “Sounds like you didn’t get enough sleep. Maybe another night here would do you some good.”

Again, she insists that I stay. A little too aggressively, for a stranger.

I got plenty of sleep last night, so I’m fine for travel.

She seemed to wince at the word travel.

“Travel? But you hardly gave the city a chance! C’mon, do it for me?”

Talia gave me a cute, pleading look.

My caution only grew. While she was a pretty face, this is a little much for someone I barely know. I still have to leave pretty soon.

She huffed, “After all that, you’re still going to leave? Fine.”

Talia promptly got up and left, disappearing as she turned the corner outside of the bar.

The place seemed to get a little quieter after our little disagreement, so I quickly paid for my barely-tasted drink and left.

As soon as I left the bar, the city gradually became silent.

Pedestrians, cars, birds, any anything that could move out of sight seemed to find their way out of my vision.

I heard a thunk behind me and turned.

The money I had paid earlier was on the floor. Seems like it was thrown back at me.

Looking up from it, there was no one in the bar that could have possibly tossed it, as the bar was completely devoid of people.

The city was empty again.

I suppose that’s my queue to leave; this city’s intrigue is starting to lean more into the unsettling territory.

As I walked back to the hotel to get my things, the advertisement screens seemed to be more hostile.

“You are not welcome.”

“I made this for you. And you were ungrateful.”

“This city doesn’t want you.”

“Leave.”

Even more concerning, the lights from blocks I’ve just walked past were turning off. Leaving nothing but pitch black at my heels.

I took no further delay and tried to leave as soon as possible. 

After packing up, I exited the hotel and entered the parking garage. Right when I did, all of the lights around me switched off.

The only sound I could hear was a slight ringing from my ears.

I pressed the unlock on my car keys to help briefly illuminate the surroundings. 

Light bounced off of the walls of the car park, enough to reach me from a couple floors above.

With each brief flash of my car’s headlights, I made my way up the ramps of the garage.

As I went, I couldn’t help but feel a sense of dread.

Like I was a trespasser and was being watched.

Eventually, I made it to my car.

I noticed there was a ticket on the windshield.

After plucking it, entering the car and turning it on, I was able to read the single charge.

“Overstaying welcome.”

That’s not a crime, but you didn’t have to tell me twice that I had to leave.

I slowly navigated my way out of the garage, my headlights the only things illuminating the place. 

As I drove my way outside, there seemed to be a faint, illuminated path down the street leading out of the city. The only source of light being from the screens above, stating “LEAVE.”

Driving out, the streets behind me were swallowed in darkness. 

As soon as I exited the city limits, the light from the moon peered through the dense clouds, granting me sight beyond my headlights.

I turned around to take a look at the city, only to find it completely gone.

