Today

(Mostly workshopping story-building)

I started noticing it today, after a while.

Missed conversation beats. People occasionally seeming to ignore me. The deja vu. People being in the same place at the same time. After I noticed it, it was easy to see that things were running like clockwork.

The lady in the blue workout clothes always walked her daschund at 7:24am around the apartment complex.

The large man in an embroidered leather jacket always had a smoke near the local cafe at 4:34pm.

The wake of vultures were always feeding off of a deer carcass in the park, around 8:23am in the same spot.

There were the same two people arguing by the same intersection on 3rd and Thompson at 12:32pm.

People were in the same spot, at the same time, doing the same thing, having the same conversations and lifestyles.

So I got to testing.

I tried pushing the cogs to see what moved.

When I talked to anyone, they did have new things to say, but said the same things to others.

I could interact with anything and have a different consequence, but being partially involved with someone else usually led to the same result.

It was predictable, worryingly so.

When I try to recall past days, it would be a haze. The only thing that persisted would be shrouded in a gray fog.

When I had lost confidence that anything would change, someone new appeared. He was clear as day, unlike the others that were covered in fog. I had to get answers, so I had to talk to him. He seemed distressed to see me. Said he didn’t expect to interact with anyone here.

“Here”?

Just as quickly as he came, he left like the sun being consumed by clouds.

This only brought more questions.

Weeks had passed, and my sanity only grew more unstable. I began to follow a schedule to keep me sane, to give me a semblance of normality.

Then it happened again; the same man reappeared. I needed answers, so I approached him immediately. Still startled at my presence, he stated it’s only been a few minutes since he’s last seen me. It troubles him that I’ve been so quick to approach after so short of time.

“It’s been weeks, what do you mean?”

He frowned, “You don’t know, do you? Poor thing.”

Then he was gone, again.

Months have passed. I had to be strict to my schedule or else I’d lose my mind. My thoughts were practically blurred by the mundanity. I knew where everyone would be, what their names are, their supposed aspirations, and every day they would confirm the same thing. Every conversation was slowly becoming about the same topics every time. Yet the hilarious thing is that I had to introduce myself every damn time like I was a stranger. I’d know the interests of anyone down to fine details and they still didn’t know my name. I feel like I’m almost losing it.

Right when I felt like I was on my last train of thought, the man appeared again.

I could not let him get away this time, I need OUT.

He was just as uneasy as I started talking with him again, like he sensed my desperation. As if to ward me away, he mentioned I should just let go. That I should leave him alone and that I need to accept that I was part of some unfortunate accident. It didn’t make sense. I’m stuck in this place, and I need to get OUT. 

I grabbed him by the shoulders, begging to take me with him. He shrieked in pain, gray veins seeped into the man’s body from my hands, only stopping when he pulls away.

“DON’T DROWN ME WITH YOU, YOU FOOL! ACCEPT THAT YOU’RE DEAD!”

He ran away into the fog.

Dead? This doesn’t feel like death.

I tried to recollect my memories; as if a new door was unlocked, I could briefly see what was before. 

I was outside, just like any other day, but there was no gray fog. I walked into the town, and the day went by plainly. Almost exactly the same as how the current day went. However, right when the day ended, there was a blinding light. A shroud of gray covered the town, then what happened next was…today. 

Whatever today was, is, or will be, the result is always today. 

There was nothing left but today.

And I was part of today.

I panicked, what could I do? 

The others seem more normal, more sane than I am, because they accepted today for what it is. Were they once like me? Would things get better if I was like them? I’m almost like them, as my schedule was already very strict. It would just need a small nudge. Maybe I should accept today for what it is before I go insane…
.
.
.
…I met a new girl while ordering some coffee at the new cafe today. We hit it off pretty well! Her name is Cathy. We had similar interests, liked the same things. Everything went without a hitch, we plan to go on a date later at the park! Can’t wait for tomorrow.

—————

We found Richter. There were gray veins slowly fading away on his shoulders, that must have been close call. He reported that the town was a lost cause, that the only strong willed person there quickly lost their mind within minutes. We have to block off the area from anyone wandering in, this place will pull anyone into its loop if they aren’t careful.