Event: Skeleton Closets

The party comes across a very pleasant, spacious cottage in the middle of the woods.
The door, welcomingly ajar, may entice an entry.
The insides are as welcoming as the exterior, with the odd caveat that there are numerous doors, about thrice than what one may expect.
In the center of the room lies a note: a to do list.
The list details a mostly normal market trip, save for some out-of-place reminders for bone polish.

Opening any door will spill out a few skeletons, completely clean and inanimate.
Opening more doors will only serve to clutter the floor.
There is nothing inherently magical about the skeletons, they are just bones.

If the party snoops around or waits long enough, an old woman will return with a large can of bone polish.
She will be surprised, but welcomes the party to her abode.
If questioned about the skeletons, she will state that she was a collector, and tends to her old, completed sets.
While she will be slightly miffed if the party disturbs her skeletons, she will respond that that is the express reason why she polishes them with a special lacquer, to keep them very durable in case they were rummaged through.
If the old lady is accosted, she will cast plane shift on herself, effectively disappearing.

The party may rest in the house if they either scared her away or asked her politely if they can stay.
The party may ransack the place, but they will only find tons of skeletons, along with kitchen and gardening supplies.
The old lady will not attack the party, and will immediately disengage when any hostility is shown.
If the party decides to sleep in the home, with no sentry, they will wake up to all of the skeletons hanging in the house, drying from the bone polish.
If the party decides to sleep in the house with a sentry, they will find multiple clotheslines of skeletons outside, drying from the polish.
The old lady will greet the party again when they wake, if there was no hostility shown, along with offering some soup.

Despite all of the skeletons, and the concerning knowledge she must have to cast Plane Shift, the old lady is harmless.
