Event: Wounded Knight
The party finds themselves in the aftermath of a bloody stalemate in front of a recently-ruined, smoldering manor. There are seemingly no survivors.

Both sides of the fight incurred heavy losses, with some of the strewn about corpses bearing arms and armor of two different sigils.
Perceptive people will find that some of the corpses have had their weapons and armor stripped; looks like the process was stopped midway.

Of note from the bunch is a slumped set of heavy armor, sitting against a stone wall, that is seemingly barely clinging onto its sword and shield.
Compared to the other sets of corpses donning light armor, this one sticks out as a set of half-plate.
It is thoroughly stained with blood; if observant, one might notice that it has dried.

Approaching anywhere near it will prompt a response.
“Hello! I am in dire need of aid, will you perhaps lend me something to tide these wounds?”
Perceptive ones will find that the armor did not move when he talked, and the head is still slumped facing the ground.
Anyone that touches it will disturb a Delayed Bomb that will explode for 1d4+1 fire per two Player Levels.
The Bomb also serves as a Tanglefoot Bomb that the victim must roll a Reflex save to prevent from being Entangled (save starts at DC 12 from PL2, increases by 1 every two levels).
As soon as the bomb is set off, four thieves surprise the party, with at least one close to the armor.

If the party detects something suspicious and does not approach the armor, it will attempt to sway the party further, lamenting that his wounds are dire and need to be healed if he wishes to live.
Heal checks without touching the armor will discover that the person inside the armor has been dead for a while.
Someone suspicious enough and rolling a successful Spellcraft check will find out the armor was “talking” through the Ventriloquism spell, from a nearby source.
Rolling any Sense Motive will reveal no motive, as the target is dead.
After some time the thieves will be impatient and charge the party in a regular round.
