Silver Slug Seller
On the topic of merchants, a slug that really likes silver. More flavor for any potential Pathfinder campaigns.

A silver slug that runs his own shop. Wears a fancy, black top hat with a gray band that has a few silver coins jutting out of it.  Speaks with telepathy, making appropriate gestures with his eyestalks and body, where applicable. The slug’s irises are the color gray, and the trail he leaves is a sparkling silver that dissipates after a few moments. Any of his motions and speaking patterns become more excited and hurried if silver is potentially on the table for him. 

If you offer him any silver items, he will pay you double the price. If you pay with the gray coins, he will reduce the price of his wares by 20%. Its shop has tinges and accents of light gray throughout. If any items are purchased, he takes off his hat and asks you to place the payment within it. Coins tossed in will make an audible plonk, but cannot be seen again once it escapes sight. The more payment that is done in silver, the fatter the band on the slug’s hat gets, with more and more silver coins progressively poking out.

If given enough silver (to not abuse discounts too much), the slug will abruptly close shop, with audible jingles being heard soon after. If the adventuring party decides to inspect the window, they’ll find the slug making slug-angels with the silver pieces, using its stalk-eyes for the (greatly misplaced) wings.

If you happen to throw salt on him, he becomes the Copper Caterpillar Chapman, after much confusion. Strangely still, any silver decorations in his store change to copper. Essentially the same as his Silver form, but has a liking for copper instead. He will sport copper irises and a row of copper dots on both sides of his body, along with losing his slug-like antennas and gaining numerous sets of arms. His hat will be the same size though, and somewhat oversized since he’s shrunk about a quarter of his size. He will deny ever being silver if you question about it, and will be disgusted if you suggest he liked silver.