More of just flavor instead of an actual encounter.

The shopkeep is very short, almost like a gremlin, but otherwise has human-like features. 
Though said features are smooth and slimy looking, as if he puts on too much lotion. 
Voice is similar to Stitch, but is generally well-mannered. 
Wears a dress suit and bolo tie, though the former appears to be tailored a bit longer and hangs above the knees of his dress pants.
He leans slightly forward, with his hands clasped behind on the small of his back.
His steps are very audible due to his shoes.
If inspected, one might find that they look more like dance shoes than dress shoes.

Any questions about his demeanor is usually met with a reply mentioning how his wife, who is a very normal and homely human being, prefers it that way. 
If pressed about his speech patterns, he will change his voice to something more pleasing and normal after a series of deep coughs.
If further pressed, he hacks and coughs more violently while making involuntary, jerking twitches until any weirdness about him is fully gone, besides his short stature.
In this state, he is considerably more handsome, somehow.
His posture becomes upright with his chest out, his voice becoming very deep and masculine.
Once the party has done their business and leaves, he exhales deeply and returns to his usual, gremlin-like self.

If threatened, he pulls out a battleaxe that’s almost twice his size from behind his back, seemingly from nowhere.
His wares are very unassuming and are typical to what you’d normally see in any other shop. 
The only thing out of place is him, but he tries to not act strangely on purpose despite the times where there are small hiccups in modicum. 
I.e. saying “yes” at the end of his sentences, oddly suggesting simple actions (“I love drinking water, I hope you drink water too.”), or small flourishes/twitches out of nowhere.

Other weird statements:
"I love warm socks." -said at random, unprompted
"I need to remember to water the dog tonight." -said if players idle with him around
"Methinks I should open up an eye-scrubbing service. I'd be the only shop in town, would be high in demand!" -more idle chat
"My wife loves it when I do this." -proceeds to contort into a pretzel, then audibly snap back
"Oh dear. I forgot." -said at random, unprompted
(If asked what he forgot) "I hear people say that a lot, and I like how it sounds"
"Please, come inside and observe my wares with your eyes, yes." -Greeting
"My wife is making soup tonight. I hope she adds extra Jabberwock this time." -Actually insane if you know what that creature is, Knowledge check
"The price of that will be worth your soul...so roughly xx gold pieces." -Exchange flavor
"I don't mind extra inventory, I have plenty of space here." -selling things to him will have him place the sold item behind his back, with it disappearing
(If threatened) "Please, I don't feel like taking any livers right now, I'm not hungry."
(If further threatened) "Well, it can't be helped. Your eyes will be a fine addition to my wife's soup, at least."
(buying nothing) "Oh well. Thank you for considering with your brain-thoughts, yes."
(buying anything) "You'll like that one. I like it too, yes."
(Caught stealing) "Put it back, or I'll shove your head into a pickle jar. You'll be sour for weeks."
(Leaving without entering) "Oh, I'll have to work on my people manners...again. Maybe it's the tie."
(Questioning appearance) "I suppose I do look odd, but my wife-wife really this outfit, so I wear it for her, yes."
(Questioning voice) "Oh you mean...right, let me fix that..." -coughs, voice becomes normal and no longer says weird things
(Further questioning appearance) "Ah, a moment, please. This will look a bit...nasty." -violently twitches and becomes handsome with a deep, masculine voice
(While handsome) "My fair customers, what might I interest you in, on this fine, beautiful day?" -no more weird, though that might be boring

Again, not an actual encounter. This is just to add flavor if the campaign needs it and the players want a little more beyond stat/equipment swap moments.