List of minor, descriptive things.
Just some ideas that can’t really make a full encounter, but would be neat to place in certain environments.

-Construct whose speech is slightly impaired to extend pronunciation of vowels. 
Could be used anywhere, but I like the idea of it being in a library because of the contrast.
“Whaaaaaat boooooooook woooooooouuuuuld yoooooouuuuuuuu liiiiiiikeeeee toooooooooooo cheeeeeeeck oooooooouuuuuuut?”
Successful Knowledge Engineering checks will find out that some kids stuck some gum into its gears, causing it to get momentarily stuck then unstuck when trying to say vowels. 
Dislodging it will have the construct cough out a few gold pieces and it gets used to normal speech. 
Otherwise behaves the same as before.

-Cat that follows the party, but only by rolling. 
If the party is observant (craft magic item), they will notice it’s wearing specially tailored Boots of the Elvenkind on each of its four feet. 
If the party attempts to interact with it and get close, it will leap incredibly high to the top of the nearest building. 
Those knowledgeable in Alchemy will discover that the cat seems to have partaken in someone’s potion of Jump. 
A particularly strong form of it, since it was able to leap to the top of a one story building.
Depending on the party’s actions, they will be constantly followed by a rolling cat while in town, and it will only run away if the party leaves or attempts to grab/interact with it.

-Child keeps shouting “FIREBALL” while flicking out a wand.
It keeps aiming at random targets, shouting it over and over, to the amusement of the people around him.
Some of his slightly-older peers come and jeer at him for trying magic and failing.
After a few dozen attempts, he throws down his wand and shouts “FIREBALL!” while extending his hands.
This time, however, a Firebolt comes out and taps one of the bullies for 1d3 damage. 
It singes a small hole in his pants to reveal bright pink underwear with heart shapes.
The group scurries away in response.
The child, excited, begins to shout louder and faster in hopes of it happening again.
It does not, despite his increased enthusiasm.

-A crow that likes to perch on the party member with the highest Handle Animal skill. It occasionally drops colorful baubles on top of their head. Somehow, the same crow finds them regardless of where they travel to. The crow leaves forever if the perched party member attempts to shoo it away.

-The party hears a sneeze while they are alone on a street within a city or town. 
After not hearing or seeing anything, they may just move along or find the source of it.
If the latter, they may hear a nasally voice respond: “Sorry, I’m allergic to potions of Invisibility. I’ll leave you be.”
The party will then hear footsteps moving away from them, with an occasional sneeze that continuously gets further and further from the party.

-Big, super evil looking dude in full, spiky armor operating a small bakery. 
Whole shebang: red-glowing eyes, skulls for shoulder pads, black horns on each side of his head, armor engraved with lamenting faces, you name it.
While his mannerisms are a bit…violent…he genuinely enjoys making bread, cupcakes, and confectioneries for others to enjoy. 
He makes a show out of it too, i.e. “SUBMIT YOUR TASTE BUDS TO THE OVERWHELMING MIGHT OF CERGOR’S CONFECTIONS!”
“KNEEL BEFORE THE INEVITABLE, FOR THE FLAVOR NEVER WAVERS!”
He genuinely makes really good food and has no ulterior motive, since he believes in "dominating" the taste buds of others.
Every time he moves to put something in the oven or out onto the display stand, he has to hunch some because he is a little too big for the store.
Further inspection of him, one may find that he radiates unholiness.
Despite that, the people that frequent him say he’s a softie and that he has been baking for the past several months.
Eating any of his goods is the equivalent of drinking a decent cure light wounds potion (1d8+3).

-A haunting pillow. 
As soon as someone lays their head down on it, a haunt triggers. 
Imagine: your party goes to rest for the day, then as soon as they do, they hear “it’s time for initiative.”
Whoever is subject to the haunt sees a very distressing figure staring at them.
If they are at an inn, it stares at them from the doorway. 
If outside, however odd that finding a pillow outside may be, it will be staring at them from beside a tree or bush roughly 20 or more feet away.
Those knowledgeable in Spellcraft might find out that this haunt in particular is Phantasmal Killer.
Only real application of this could be at a sketchy inn or if the party tries to sleep in an abandoned home.

-The reverse-fortune teller.
A fortune teller that can accurately tell the future…except only its opposite outcomes. 
Soon to be filthy rich? You’re going to end up naked in a ditch.
Going to get beat up by a gang of thugs? You’re going to be swarmed by cute pugs.
About to win a race? You’re going to be in last place.
Feeling like you’re going to be unwell? You will be the only one that can’t tell.
As soon as people figure out her schtick, she vanishes and a sign appears in her place that says “No refunds.”

-Small town
The party arrives in a nice and very clean town…but things are a little off. 
And quite literally. 
Doors are slightly too short, the top of the frames reaching foreheads.
Lampposts are grazing the hairs of most people.
Steps of stairs are only comfortable if taking 2 at a time.
If extending your arm upwards, the tallest party member can almost reach the top of one-story buildings.
The only thing not small are the residents.
If questioned about it, any of them will respond, with mild ire, that the mayor wanted the town rebuilt. 
He found a magical contractor and tried to haggle for 25% off.
As the party can see, the deal technically worked.
Everything in the town operates the same as a normal town, just smaller infrastructure.
Also seems to be a favorite destination for less-than-tall folk, like gnomes and halflings. For whatever reason.

-A dog that follows the party at random, seeming to make motions to bark, but no sound comes out.
Observant party members might discern that its collar is a bit more ornate than most.
Late-to-discern magic users might find out that some of their spells can’t be used around the dog.
Those that are knowledgeable enough will find that the collar is enchanted with silence.
Taking off the collar with have the dog actually bark and do a spin out of gratitude, then will leave shortly after.
Potentially could rework this as the pet of an antagonist that is trying to be a nuisance.
Or also make the dog invisible. But that might be too annoying.

-A tree made of bees. A bee tree.
I feel like it could be a custom enemy, but I mean it’d be stationary. 
Could spawn giant bee enemies that could move to attack the party.
Destroying the tree makes the existing bees enraged, but no further bees spawn.

-Grease shop. 
A shop that only sells grease, and everything within a 10 ft radius of the door is covered in grease. 
If the party manages to get inside, they sell a variety of every grease-based product for 3/4 of the price. 
The store owner is oblivious as to why he doesn’t get as many customers, and appears to move perfectly within the grease wherever he moves.

-Wizard sunning by an oasis in the desert. 
Whenever the party encounters a desert, there may be an oasis a good bit in into their traversal of it.
Either when the party enters it or as they approach it, a wizard will appear or will already be there.
He will be laying down in a lounge chair, wearing swim trunks and sunglasses, using mirrors to point the sun at his face.
If the party approaches him, he will motion for them to move out of his sunlight.
If the party attacks him, he will teleport away.
If the party attempts to talk to him, he will be annoyed, but answer tersely.
If asked too many questions, the wizard will groan, pack up his things, and teleport away.
If the party somehow kills him before he retreats, they will obtain a very fashionable pair of swim trunks that give bonuses to swimming and elemental resistance to intense sunlight (+2 each).
If the party asks for water to drink, the wizard will gesture to the oasis.
If the party decides to sun with him, he will leaves swimwear for every party member (+2 swim/heat resistance).




