The Large Fisherman
More of a hazard needing to be bypassed than an encounter. 

The party encounters a large humanoid that is fishing on a bridge that they need to cross. 
Completely covered and facing perpendicular to the party, it’s difficult to discern who or what it is.
If the party comes closer to the bridge, the fisherman will grunt aggressively.

To whoever is leading the party in front, as soon as they step on the bridge, they will have to roll a Will save.
If failed, the party member will turn around and suggest the party to do the same, to set up camp for the day a couple miles off the road.
If succeeded, the party member will still receive the message, but not feel compelled to do what it asks.
Those in the party knowledgeable of Spellcraft can roll to discern that the spell being cast is Demand.
Demand is: “Turn back. Go rest, far away from the trail.”
Ignoring the message will have a Blade Barrier appear, blocking the bridge entrance if the party attempts to step on it again.

Initiative starts.

Depending on the party’s actions, they could try a few different approaches.
If they attempt to fly around the bridge, they will be completely ignored by the fisherman, provided they stay roughly more than 10 feet away from the bridge.
If they fly in front of the fisherman’s vision, it will scowl at the party, but will do nothing.

If flying in front of it, being able to see its scaly face, characters knowledgeable in Planes can roll a check to find out that the fisherman is a green Draconic Agathian.
Those that know what it is, depending on the party’s level, will know that it’s probably best to avoid an encounter if possible.
If flying too close to it without engaging, the fisherman will cast gust of wind to blow the party away to the opposite end of the bridge, effectively giving the party their goal and an out.
If the party engages, depending on the level disparity, the Agathian will use a turn to give a warning to an under-leveled party before casting each spell.
If the party is leveled enough for the encounter, the Agathian immediately retaliates without warning.

Attempting to swim around the fisherman will also lead to it ignoring the party, unless they swim within 20 feet of his lure.
Getting near the lure will have the Agathian cast lightning bolt at the closest character.

Basically any attempts at getting closer to the Agathian or walking on the bridge itself will draw aggro from it.
If applicable, it may use Message or mumble to the party about them scaring the fish.
Killing it garners a hefty reward, though avoiding it means all of the party members will survive.

Attempting to talk to the Agathian will only result in it either grunting, telling the party to go away, stating that the bridge is too noisy and will scare the fish, or stating that the party’s presence is scaring the fish.
If bothered way too often, it will attempt to cast Control Weather to change the weather into a thunderstorm.

If the party actually heeds the Agathian, they will wake up the next morning to find a large fish, preserved frozen, right outside their camp. 
It may be used for rations or sold.