-Sleeping Bandit
The party finds a large bandit on the side of the road, sleeping. 
If a heal check is performed, the party may discover that said vagabond is very hung over. 
Succeeding at a perception check will bring attention to a letter pinned under his heavy hand:
“Gurt, you fool! Next time don’t drink your weight in mead!”
“You’re too heavy to lug around, so head down the trail when you wake.”
“We’re ready to spring when you get here, so don’t keep us waiting!”
“We need all the beef we can get, in case the next set of travelers prove to be more troublesome.”
“Get your ass in gear as soon as you read this”
-Pottle 


The party may approach this in a number of ways, so here’s a few to get an idea of what can occur:
-Kill him outright
After doing the deed and following the only trail available, the party will run into a group of bandits that seem distressed and wondering where the muscle is. 
A fight can begin without him, but a diplomacy or intimidation check can dissuade them altogether, i.e. “Do you really want to fight?”
“You seem anxious not having your main muscle here.”
“If you’re smart, we can skip the fighting this time.”

-Steal his weapon/gear
Filching his things, provided you roll decently (considering he’s passed out, but can be woken up) will result in him appearing later without them.
If you steal everything down to his britches, his comrades will be completely lost in laughter when he arrives at the bandit checkpoint. 
They will allow you to pass because they can’t keep their composure.
If you steal some of his things, he will appear later at the bandit checkpoint at a disadvantage when you fight them (using only his fists if you steal his weapon, etc).
If you steal his pants, his comrades will still be plenty amused and may be convinced to pass if you can make them laugh harder (performance check?)

-Wake up and help him
If the party decides to wake and give Gurt some water, he will thank the party and speed off down the trail, out of sight. 
When the group runs into the bandit trap, Gurt will recognize the party. 
In a dopey voice, he will proclaim, “These are my friends! Don’t hurt them, or I’ll hurt YOU.”
The bandits, wanting to keep their muscle on his good side, lets the party pass.

-Go another way, outside of the trail
Probably the most boring option, but it's still available.
Can avoid the encounter altogether.
When going past a certain point, the party may see a group of unaware bandits stacked kneeling on top of each other, hiding behind some bushes.
The party may surprise them for an advantage, or just ignore them altogether since they're facing away from the party.


If you want to add extra personality, Pottle from the letter may be added to the bandit group.
He is the leader of the group, as well as the shortest by a decent margin.
In terms of demeanor, think Rocky from Looney Tunes, which pairs well with Gurt being similar to Mugsy.
Very “why I oughtaaa” type of character.