Wishing Well

Random encounter that yields gold, depending on party's actions.
Location would be preferably close to a city or a semi-wealthy town

During their travels, the party may spot a well that’s slightly off of a main path of a road, with an elegant sign that reads: “WISHING WELL: 1 GOLD PIECE PER WISH”.
The well's bucket is fully extended down into it, completely enveloped in darkness.
If one were to toss a gold piece, a droning, booming voice emanates from deep within:
“WHAT IS YOUR WISH?”
After you state your wish, it will generally respond, “WISH GRANTED. BE PATIENT, AND IT WILL BECOME TRUE.”

High perception checks may find that the voice of the well itself doesn’t actually sound magical, but rather amplified through magic.
Those knowledgeable in Arcana can discover that the spell Clarion Call is being used to make the voice deep and intimidating.

If the wish involves something immediate, i.e. wanting something that very instant, it will respond: “WISHES TAKE TIME. BE PATIENT, IT WILL BECOME TRUE.”
If the wish involves the well itself, i.e. wanting it to be destroyed, want it to give you all of the gold used for previous wishes, etc, it will respond: “NO. TRY ANOTHER WISH.”
If someone tosses in something else besides gold pieces, it will generally state: “WISHES ARE GRANTED THROUGH GOLD. TRY AGAIN.”

If someone tosses in something that does damage, like an Alchemist’s Fire or a bomb, the droning voice is cut off by screams. 
The bucket then rapidly pulls up a gnome in finery that’s either damaged or on fire, and he scurries away quickly. 
Tossing in another gold piece after this event yields no voice.

Simply following the well’s instructions will be rather boring. But, if one stick’s around afterwards, the bucket may reel up a gnome carrying a heavy sack of gold pieces, whom silently scurries away. Depending on the party’s alignment, the option may present itself to gain a bit more currency.

If one reels up the bucket, the voice will break character for a moment: “Hey! Put that back!…Err…PLACE THE BUCKET BACK INTO THE WELL, IF YOU WANT YOUR WISHES GRANTED.”
If the party leaves after reeling up the bucket, the next time they return, there will be yelps for help coming from inside of the well.

Robbing the gnome yields a sizable amount of gold pieces (~100-1000). 
The gnome is otherwise defenseless and tries to use guile more than skill.


