Couragecrow
Another possible random encounter while adventuring. Rewards the players if they solve the puzzle, otherwise does nothing.

In the middle of a field with some stone rubble there is a scarecrow, except it’s doing an incredibly terrible job at scaring crows. 
Every possible inch of it, and everywhere in a 10 foot radius (hint), has a crow. 
Upon closer inspection, the object hardly looks scary. 
If anything, it’s quite inviting, especially when you’re close to it.
Will saves when rolled near it are improved by 4.
Has a simple, charming doodle of a smiling face drawn on it.
It stands rather confidently, both legs firmly in the ground.

If getting close enough to the object, the crows, oddly, do not move. 
Making an appropriate knowledge check (Religion) will discern that the effect is due to an Aura of Courage.
If someone uses Detect Good, the scarecrow positively radiates Good.
Normally this kind of aura is attached to a paladin, not an object.

If the players are wise enough to know that an object CANNOT have an aura, they might try to unravel the scarecrow.
Doing so will reveal a petrified human, helmeted and in full plate.
The scarecrow was hiding a paladin that had been turned to stone by Flesh to Stone.
If the party decides to use Stone to Flesh, the paladin will be very out of wits for a few moments after its casting.

He/she (pick one, using she here) will swing wildly at nothing a few times before falling face flat on the ground. 
Once she has gained her composure, she rises to her knees and look bewilderingly at the party, asking them where the castle went.
After receiving unsatisfactory answers, she’ll pause for a second and hesitate before asking what year is it.
After receiving an unfortunate answer, she slowly looks down to the ground.
She then screams, “437 YEARS????” before pounding the ground repeatedly, leaving an impressive hole.

It’s here she divulges that she was in an adventuring party that was tasked to kill a lich.
She unfortunately was the target of a Flesh to Stone spell and failed to resist it.
Since time had passed in a blink of an eye to her, she is absolutely flabbergasted that it took that long to fix her, and assumes the worst happened to her party.

Depending on how much further one would want to take this, here are three possible paths:

1- The Short Way
She is incredibly grateful to the party, and gives the most valuable possession on her person. The paladin then departs hurriedly to the nearest town, proclaiming that she is PARCHED.

2- The Medium Way
She does recall an elf in her party that could still be alive, and suggests a town name (which is close by) to find him.
The party may choose to follow her and help, or can refuse for option 1 to occur instead.
If following, the party and she will indeed find her lost party member after a thorough investigation, with a wife and family.
Thoroughly surprised, he will reveal that the lich had teleported her away (via Treacherous Teleport) after turning her to stone, and the party was unable to find her after months of searching.
The lich had been dispatched shortly after her disappearance.
With her mission apparently completed, she wants to live the easy life for a while. 
The paladin gives you her equipment and items, along with any treasure to make it worth the party’s time.

3- The Long, Complicated Way
Unsure of where to look, she offers her services to the party as a follower. 
Her stats are essentially only paladin levels, minus 2 depending on the party’s levels, with heavy emphasis on courage and its Aura. 
From here, signs of her former party members can be picked up, most notably the elf. 
With clues and proper investigation, it eventually leads to option 2’s conclusion, but instead of only rewards, the party can have either a permanent follower or a contact in the biggest city they frequent.

